So what are companies looking for.
Most people tend to think it's just coding skills but as you can see here there's actually four things
that they're looking for.
One is analytic skills that is how can you think through a problem and analyze things.
And when you're coding during an interview they want to hear your thought process and how you go from
not knowing the answer to solving the problem.
They're also looking at coding skills which is do you code well.
Is your code clean well organized readable.
They also want to obviously know their technical skills or technical knowledge that is do you know the
fundamentals.
Did you just memorize things or do you understand the pros and cons of different solutions.
And then finally your communication skills.
Does your personality match the company's personality.
Can you communicate well with others with the team most likely you won't be working by yourself.
You're working with others with other teams with bosses with managers and they want to know whether
you're the type of person that's going to fit well and work well within the company.
Again most people get hung up on the idea of learning every single algorithm data structure doing a
thousand problems to practice before an interview.
And these are important but in most companies you don't actually need to know how to write a binary
search tree or write a sorting algorithm from scratch.
I mean we're going to go through that in this course but most of the time you learn it on the go on
the job when you actually need it.
And let's be honest.
As engineers we know that most of the time when a problem presents itself we're good at searching the
web on Google for answers.
Not a single one of us has everything memorized in our head.
Companies notice.
They're not dumb.
What they're looking for are people who know how to look for answers and they want to know that you
know your data structures and algorithms and you know of their existence.
That's the key.
They want to know when you should use a certain data structure over the other.
Why should we use a certain algorithm over another.
At the end of the day companies want smart people.
They want people that can solve problems that they cannot solve themselves because that's what they're
paying you and having worked at companies and also hiring people.
It's surprisingly hard to find people that can solve problems themselves without holding their hand
or walking them through a problem entirely.
So moving forward I ask you to just do this one simple thing.
Do all the exercises in the course pause the videos if you need to rewash the videos.
If you need do you need to understand the why of doing things why are we learning this.
Why is this the answer to the problem.
Why is this answer better than the other.
Again don't worry we're going to practice this muscle throughout.
OK.
Let's dive into the next video to see where we're going to learn.
I'll see in the next video bye.